---
layout: default
title: Terminology
permalink: /docs/terminology/
---

### [specification]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/specification/) 
a description of the interface between an application and a test definition.  Specifically that is what it expects from that test and how the test buckets map to application-level properties. A specification consists of *tests*, *buckets*, and *context*. It is used to generate the interface code.

### [test-matrix]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/matrix-schema/) 
a list of active *test definitions* used by all applications compiled into a single file. Generated by the *builder* and loaded by each application.

### context
a collection of application-specific variables available in the test definition rules. In a web application, these variables typically map directly to the properties of a request. e.g. `logged-in`, `country`, `language` and `user-agent`

### test ( _experiment_ )
a set of behaviors that are simultaneously delivered to different users in order to assess differences in how they affect user actions

### test definition
a description of how users should be assigned to buckets in the test.  That is done via specifying the active buckets, eligibility rules, allocation rules, test group sizes, test constants, and the salt.

### group ( _bucket_ )
a single behavior within a test. A group is determined by evaluating a test definition (in the test matrix) using the provided identifier and context. A bucket has a name, integer value and optional payload containing test-specific data.

### payload
optional data associated with each test bucket that defines one aspect of the bucket's behavior.

### eligibility rule
an expression determining if a test-definition is relevant for a provided context. If this expression evaluates to `false`, no bucket for this test should be selected.

### allocation
a description of the test's group sizes (bucket distribution). A test-definition can have multiple allocations that are conditionally used depending on its *allocation rule*.

### allocation rule
an expression determining if an allocation is relevant for a provided context. If an allocation's expression evaluates to `true`, its group sizes should be used.

### identifier
an id that will be used when determining the active groups. The id typically unique and persistent across requests (session cookie, account id, etc). Each identifier is associated with a specific test-type. The groups are determined by evaluating the test-matrix for a given identifier and context.

### test-type
an enumeration of the identifier to use when allocating test buckets

- `USER`: a unique value identifying a user; typically a tracking cookie value
- `ACCOUNT`: account-based identifiers, fixed across devices; typically a user-id
- `EMAIL`: an email address of a user
- `RANDOM`: no identifier will be used.

### test constants
variables that can be referenced in an *eligibility rule* or *allocation rule*.

